.. Review the README on instructions to contribute.
.. Review the style guide to keep a consistent approach to the documentation.
.. Static objects, such as figures, should be stored in the _static directory. Review the _static/README on instructions to contribute.
.. Do not remove the comments that describe each section. They are included to provide guidance to contributors.
.. Do not remove other content provided in the templates, such as a section. Instead, comment out the content and include comments to explain the situation. For example:
	- If a section within the template is not needed, comment out the section title and label reference. Do not delete the expected section title, reference or related comments provided from the template.
    - If a file cannot include a title (surrounded by ampersands (#)), comment out the title from the template and include a comment explaining why this is implemented (in addition to applying the ``title`` directive).

.. This is the label that can be used for cross referencing this file.
.. Recommended title label format is "Directory Name"-"Title Name" -- Spaces should be replaced by hyphens.
.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation:
.. Each section should include a label for cross referencing to a given area.
.. Recommended format for all labels is "Title Name"-"Section Name" -- Spaces should be replaced by hyphens.
.. To reference a label that isn't associated with an reST object such as a title or figure, you must include the link and explicit title using the syntax :ref:`link text <label-name>`.
.. A warning will alert you of identical labels during the linkcheck process.


####################
The DP0.3 Simulation
####################

.. This section should provide a brief, top-level description of the page.

The DP0.3 data set is composed of two sets of catalogs containing real and simulated solar system and interstellar objects:
one that represents LSST results after one year, and one that represents LSST results at the end of the 10 year survey.
The DP0.3 data set is hosted on the Rubin Science Platform (RSP) and available to all DP0 delegates.

**Credit:** The DP0.3 data set was generated by members of the Rubin Solar System Pipelines and Commissioning teams, 
with help from the LSST Solar System Science Collaboration, in particular: 
Pedro Bernardinelli, Jake Kurlander, Joachim Moeyens, Samuel Cornwall, Ari Heinze, Steph Merritt, 
Lynne Jones, Siegfried Eggl, Meg Schwamb, Grigori Fedorets, and Mario Juric.


.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-OpSim:

Observing strategy
==================

The DP0.3 simulation uses the LSST baseline v3.0 cadence 
(see page 44 of the `Survey Cadence Optimization Committee's Phase 2 Recommendations) <https://pstn-055.lsst.io/PSTN-055.pdf>`_.
This observing strategy includes the North Ecliptic Spur and deep drilling fields (DDFs).
Two of the DDFs are close to the celestial equator (have declinations near zero), 
and so are particularly beneficial for the detection of Solar System objects.
Field revisit rates, which are driven by the needs of Solar System science, are on average 33 minutes apart.
The baseline v3.0 observing strategy also contains a twilight survey for near-Earth objects (NEOs). 


.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-Objects:

Simulated objects and detections
================================

The DP0.3 simulation includes hundreds of millions of detections of millions of objects, real and synthetic (see below),
including trans-Neptunian objects (TNOs), main belt asteroids (MBAs), interstellar objects (ISOs), 
Hildas and Trojan asteroids, long-period comets, and near-Earth objects (NEOs). 

The `ObjectsInField <https://github.com/eggls6/objectsInField>`_ package was used to generate an 
ephemeris from an object catalog and the Rubin cadence,  
from which source detection and measurement were simulated using the 
`SurveySimPostProcessing <https://github.com/dirac-institute/survey_simulator_post_processing/tree/master>`_ package 
(Merritt et al. 2023, in prep). 

The simulation includes astrometric scatter and photometric variations based on the objects' color class 
(silicaceous and carbonaceous, see below), 
the exposure’s filter, and the object’s phase angle. 
However, rotation curves or complex geometry are not included.
In other words, each DP0.3 object is a uniform, textured sphere in one of two colors.
Any changes over time in an object's apparent magnitude are due only to changes in its distance and phase angle. 

Due to time constraints, DP0.3 does not contain *u*- or *y*-band detections.
This decision was made in part because the majority of objects will have very low 
signal-to-noise ratio in *u* and *y*, and object discoverability is driven by the *gri* bands.

While neither the two-color nor the missing *u*/*y* band simplifications should prevent testing and 
exploration of the simulated Rubin data set, 
there is a plan to provide a more realistic simulation in an upcoming update.



.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-Real-Objects:

Real objects from the MPC
-------------------------

The DP0.3 simulation contains all objects in the `Minor Planet Center Orbit (MPCORB) Database <https://www.minorplanetcenter.net/iau/MPCORB.html>`_
as of May 1 2023, except for the ~400 objects that have no absolute magnitudes. 
Out of these objects, Rubin detects 97% (1.2 million) of them in the simulated 10-year survey.


.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-Fake-Objects:

Synthetic object populations
----------------------------

The DP0.3 simulation includes 91% of the objects in the
`Synthetic Solar System Model (S3M) catalog <https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1086/659833/pdf>`_ 
and 12,148 simulated ISOs, and two long-period comet populations from `LSST SSSC Cadence Optimization <https://github.com/lsst-sssc/SSSC_test_populations_gitlfs>`_,
5,000 with q < 5 au and 5,000 with q < 20 au. 
In the simulated 10-year survey, Rubin detects 24% (3.2 million) S3M objects, 20% (2,429) of the simulated ISOs,
68% (3,395) of the q < 5 au long-period comets and <1% (39) of the q< 20 au long-period comets. 

Objects were simulated in two color classes: S and C 
(silicaceous and carbonaceous, see `Veres <https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.09398.pdf>`_ for more details), 
with colors and slope parameters (GS) as shown in Table 1. 

.. table:: Table 1: The C and S color classes used for DP0.3.
   
   +-------+------+------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
   | Color | V-u  | V-g  | V-r | V-i | V-z | V-y | GS  |
   +=======+======+======+=====+=====+=====+=====+=====+
   |     c |-1.614|-0.302|0.172|0.291|0.298|0.303|0.15 |
   +-------+------+------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+
   |     s |-1.927|-0.395|0.255|0.455|0.401|0.406|0.15 |
   +-------+------+------+-----+-----+-----+-----+-----+


.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-Combo:

Combining real and synthetic moving objects
-------------------------------------------

To combine the real and synthetic populations while maintaining S3M’s well-chosen orbital distributions, 
the Hybrid Solar System Catalogue Creator (`Hybridcat <https://github.com/dirac-institute/hybrid_sso_catalogue>`_) was used. 
Hybridcat removes the closest-matching synthetic object to each real object, creating a population with all 
of MPCORB and most of S3M that closely match S3M’s orbital distributions.


.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-Truth-Data:

Truth data
==========

The following truth parameters *per observation* can be found in the ``DiaSource`` tables for both the
1-year and 10-year DP0.3 catalogs.

**nameTrue**: The true MPC name of the object that generated the detection (for real objects).

**raTrue**: The true right ascension for each observation.

**decTrue**: The true declination for each observation.

**magTrueVband**: The true V-band apparent magnitude for each observation.
Use the color terms in Table 1 to recover the true apparent magnitude in the band of the observation.

Furthermore, the ``MPCORB`` tables contain injected rather than measured orbital parameters, so in this sense the ``MPCORB`` tables can be thought of as "truth tables".


.. _Data-Products-DP0-3-Data-Simulation-Issues:

Known issues
============

There are several known issues with the DP0.3 simulation.

**Color classes.**
Only two color classes have been simulated, with no variance, which is not realistic.
There is also an issue in that objects are about 0.2 mag fainter than they should be
across the board, because of an error that set :math:`V-r = 0`.
These too-faint magnitudes mean that source detection rates especially for
outer solar system objects will be underestimated with DP0.3.

**Missing *u* and *y* band.**
The *u* and *y* band detections were not simulated for solar system objects in DP0.3.
As SS objects are typically quite faint in *u* and *y*, and there are fewer visits
in these filters than in *griz*, this has only a small (if any) impact on moving
object identification rates.

*Overly dim detection magnitudes.*
There is an issue with trailed magnitudes that leads to overly dim detections (e.g., by up to 10 mag).
This is an issue for a few to ten thousand detections out of billions.

**The camera footprint is awkwardly shaped.**
However, it does have the correct size. 
This means that while the total number of detections are still representative of the future LSST,
individual objects might not have been detected for a given visit, when they should have been.

**All ISOs are similar.**
They all have similar dates of perihelion passage (pass the Sun at similar times)
and they do not have a distribution of absolute H magnitudes (they are all bright).

**The number of ISO and LPC objects exceeds predictions.**
There are many more ISO and LPC objects in the simulation than the LSST is projected to observe, by orders of magnitude.
This is not exactly an issue: these populations were inflated on purpose so that a diversity of properties could be simulated
(instead of only just a few objects).


